# AdvanceBusinessAnalytics
 Likelihood Functions

We generally use some form of regression models or some machine learning models for data fitting. These examples are my best attempt to fit a parametric distribution to the data so it can be generalized easily. First we learn likelihood functions to be able to fit the distribution to the data. And we choose distributions that follows some intuitive, powerful but simple probability/statistical models.  

Likelihood methods are widely used to fit a distribution to the data and estimate the parameters.  We want to build models (parametric distributions) of plausible consumer behavior that generates the data. Thus the goal is to build a “model” of consumer behavior and apply this model (probability distribution) to data to test how accurate it is and tweak if necessary. Most importantly, with such a model in hand, we want to predict how outcomes will change if the firm changed its strategy. Thus a key goal of the course is to learn a model based approach to prediction.

The examples include timing process, counting process, and choice process where we can apply commonly used distribution functions to parameterize these processes.  Timing process will focus on when a user does something (when will a user churn from a firm, when will a product drop out of bestseller list, when will a user adopt a new product and so on). Counting process will focus on how many items are purchased or how many users are adopting and so on. Choice process deals with customers choosing a product out of multiple choices.